## Capstone Project 2
Using Natural Language Processing (NLP) techniques my objective is to understand the relationships between scientific research and conservation management goals.

# Dataset
The scientific text data was obtained from the “Data for Research” service provided by [JSTOR](http://dfr.jstor.org) using the following search string: [“Galapagos” OR “Galápagos”]. This first search produced more than ten thousand articles; this result was then refined to full-length journal research articles only and English language resulting in a total of 3,717 articles dated from 1812 to 2015. The grey literature sample was obtained by digitizing the available management plans for the region and the protected areas of the Galapagos Islands, nine in total (1974, 1984, 1988, 1996, 1999, 2005, 2007, 2014, 2015). Another set of grey literature [“Galapagos Report”](http://www.galapagos.org/about_galapagos/about-galapagos/library/galapagos-reports/), is composed by a set of articles (in this analysis the publications since 2008 were used) written by different actors in the Galapagos environmental governance (i.e. researchers, protected area managers, urban planners, natural science students, conservationists). The final data set is composed by another scientific laden literature, the [CDF journal (1964-2010)](http://www.darwinfoundation.org). This set of data differs from the international scientific articles in two ways: 1) the journal was aimed to a very specific public concerned with the conservation and scientific research in the Galapagos Islands; and 2) the content, at least, in the beginning of the journal included a summary of news deemed relevant for this public.

#Methods
Once the data was cleaned and preprocessed, we applied topic modeling for the statistical analysis of a large collection of unstructured text data (i.e. scientific articles, abstracts, and grey literature) using Latent Dirichlet Allocation (LDA) (Blei, Ng & Jordan 2003) in the R statistics software (R Core Team 2016) using the package “mallet” (Mimno 2013), “dfrtopics” and “dfr-browser” (Goldstone 2016). There were various topics that were stable and of good quality, however we will consider only the topic related to introduced species for each dataset, in the case were more than one topic related to introduced species for a dataset the topic with the highest quality was chosen. In addition to this, the topic corresponding to the scientific literature only shows the data beginning from the year 1960. Finally, to study the temporal relationships in our dataset we chose to use a post-hoc calculation based on the weighted contribution of each topic T in each year y using the equation proposed by Cohen Priva and Austerweil (2015).


Final Report [here](https://github.com/jaimeortiz-david/Capstone_2/blob/master/Capstone%20Project%202_%20Final%20Report.pdf)
